Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
A.
programing language is a formal language,which comprises a set of instructions used to produce various kinds of output.

What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
A.
 The Runtime Interpreter - a stand-alone version of the Java interpreter built into the HotJava browser. The runtime
 interpreter provides the support to run Java executable programs in compiled, bytecode format.
 The Compiler - used to compile Java source code files into executable Java bytecode classes. In Java, source code
 files have the extension .java.
 The Debugger - Debugging is the routine process of locating and removing bugs, errors or abnormalities from programs

What is IDE?
A. Integrated Development Environment.. is a software application which enables users to more easily write and debug
Java programs.



What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
A. Netbeans eclipse intellij bluej jDeveloper

Explain the entire java life cycle.
A.A new thread begins its life cycle in the new state. It remains in this state
  until the program starts the thread. It is also referred to as a born thread.

  Runnable − After a newly born thread is started, the thread becomes runnable. A thread in this state is considered to
  be executing its task.

  Waiting − Sometimes, a thread transitions to the waiting state while the thread waits for another thread to perform
  a task. Thread transitions back to the runnable state only when another thread signals the waiting thread to
  continue executing.

  Timed Waiting − A runnable thread can enter the timed waiting state for a specified interval of time. A thread in this
  state transitions back to the runnable state when that time interval expires or when the event it is waiting for occurs.

  Terminated (Dead) − A runnable thread enters the terminated state when it completes its task or otherwise terminates.

what is class?
A.Class is a blueprint of an object

What is object?
A.object is an instance of a Class

What is the entry point of an application?
A.The main method is the entry point of a Java application

Why main is static?
A. it can be directly invoked via the cl
Which class is the superclass of all classes? java.lang.Object is a super class of any class by default.

Which class is the superclass of all classes?
A.Object Class
What is difference between path and classpath variables?
A. Path is an environment variable which is used by the operating
  system to find the executables. Classpath is an environment variable which is used by the Java compiler to find the path


What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
A.Main difference is methods of a Java interface are implicitly abstract and cannot have implementations. A Java abstract
class can have instance methods that implements a default behavior.


Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
A.No
what is Access Specifier?
A. sets permission for class, who can see and can not see such as private or public

What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
A.OBJECT ORIENTED PROGRAMMING
It features are encapsulation,inheritance and polymorphism.

What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
A. A package is a namespace that organizes a set of related
classes and interfaces.
Java.lang is default

What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
A.Application programming interface
Intellij and  eclipse

Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
A.No, In java this can never occur as there is no multiple
     inheritance. Here even if two interfaces are going to have same method, the implementing class will have only one method
     and that too will be done by the implementer.

What is method overloading and when it happens?
A. it is when there are more than 2 method and Overloading occurs when two
  or more methods in one class have the same method name but different parameters.

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
A. An exception is an unwanted or unexpected event, which occurs during
  the execution of a program i.e at run time, that disrupts the normal flow of the program’s instructions. it is handled
  by compiler in the API and does not run code, fixes are suggested.


What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
A. The static keyword in Java is used for
  memory management mainly. We can apply java static keyword with variables, methods, blocks and nested class. The static
  keyword belongs to the class than an instance of the class

What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
A.final keyword in java. final keyword is used in different
  contexts. First of all, final is a non-access modifier applicable only to a variable, a method or a class.Following are
  different contexts where final is used. When a variable is declared with final keyword, its value can't be modified,
  essentially, a constant.



What is final, finally and finalize?
A. Final class can't be inherited, final method can't be overridden and final variable
  value can't be changed. Finally is used to place important code, it will be executed whether exception is handled or
  not. Finalize is used to perform clean up processing just before object is garbage collected.

What is a constructor ?
A. A constructor in Java is a block of code similar to a method that's called when an
instance of an object is created.

Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
A.Yes
If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
A.the default constructor is called

What is "this" keyword in java ?
A.This is a reference variable in Java that refers to the current object. ... It can be
  used to refer instance variable of current class. It can be used to invoke or initiate current class constructor.

What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
A.The super keyword in java is a reference variable
  that is used to refer parent class objects. Super can be used with method and constructors.

What is JVM stand for ?
A.JAVA Vitual Machine

Is JVM platform independent?
A.No

What version of java are you using?
A."11.0.1" 2018-10-16 LTS

What is JAR stand for ?
A.Java Archive

What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
A.JVM is Java Virtual Machine, the JVM actually runs Java bytecode.
JDK is Java Developer Kit, the JDK is what you need to compile Java source code


What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
A. JDK is a superset of JRE, and contains everything that is in JRE, plus
  tools such as the compilers and debuggers necessary for developing applets and applications. JRE provides the
  libraries, the Java Virtual Machine (JVM), and other components to run applets and applications written in the Java
  programming language.


What is compile time and run time?
A. compile time is how long IT takes compiler to compile code and runtime is how long
  it takes to run the code.

What is heap?
A. it is a space allocate in the Ram


How java manage it's memory?
A.The JVM loads the code, verifies the code, executes the code, manages memory this includes
  allocating memory from the Operating System, managing Java allocation including heap compaction and removal of garbage
  objects and finally provides the runtime environment.


What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
A.String is immutable once created can not be changed object.
  StringBuffer
  StringBuffer is mutable means one can change the value of the object
  StringBuilder
  StringBuilder is same as the StringBuffer , that is it stores the object in heap and it can also
  be modified . The main difference between the StringBuffer and StringBuilder is
  that StringBuilder is also not thread safe.
  StringBuilder is fast as it is not thread safe.

What is Singleton class?
A. In object-oriented programming, a singleton class is a class that
  can have only one object.

What is Serialization and Deserialization?
A.Serialization is a mechanism of converting the state of an object into a
  byte stream. Deserialization is the reverse process where the byte stream is used to recreate the actual Java object
  in memory

when to use transient variable in java?
A. The Java transient keyword is used on class attributes/variables to indicate
  that serialization process of such class should ignore such variables while creating a persistent byte stream for any
  instance of that class

Difference between while and do..while loop?
A. The difference is in when the condition gets evaluated.In a do..while loop,the condition is not evaluated until the
end of each loop.That means a do..while loop will alaways run at least once.In a while loop,the condition is evaluated at the start.

What is Enum?
A. a data type consisting of a set of named values called elements, members, enumeral, or enumerators of the
  type. The enumerator names are usually identifiers that behave as constants in the language.

What is Iterator?
A. The primary purpose of an iterator is to allow a user to process every element of a container while
  isolating the user from the internal structure of the container.Its use to retrieve elements one by one.

Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
A.Integer


Why is String Immutable in Java?
A.The string is Immutable in Java because String objects are cached in String pool

What is constructor chaining in Java?
A. Constructor chaining is the process of calling one constructor from another
  constructor with respect to current object


The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
A. a serial collector is a default copying collector which
  uses only one GC thread for the GC operation, while a parallel collector uses multiple GC threads for the GC operation.
  garbage collector collects garbage after executing program


What is JIT stands for?
A.Just in Time compiler


Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
A. The heap is created when the JVM starts up and may increase or decrease
  in size while the application runs. When the heap becomes full, garbage is collected. During the garbage collection
  objects that are no longer used are cleared, thus making space for new objects.


Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
A. garbage collection can be guarenteed at the end of the program life
  cycle

What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
A. Stack is used for static memory allocation and Heap for dynamic
  memory allocation, both stored in the computer's RAM.


What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
A.Reflection in Java is the ability to examine and/or modify the
  properties or behavior of an object at run-time. Reflection makes it possible to inspect classes, fields and methods at
  runtime, without knowing the names of the classes, methods etc. at compile time.


what is multithreading in java?
A. multithreading is to provide simultaneous execution of two or more parts of a program
  to maximum utilize the CPU time

What is the use of synchronization in Java?
A. Synchronization in Java guarantees that no two threads can execute a
  synchronized method which requires the same lock simultaneously or concurrently.

What is Framework?

A. Frameworks are large bodies of prewritten code to which you add your own code to solve a problem
  in a specific domain


What are the testing Framework available in java?
A.Junit ,selenium


Difference between jUnit and testNG?
A. junit has no dependancy test
  What are the dependencies for this project? gson, java json, javax-json, mongo JD, mysql testng


What are the dependencies for this project?
A.  gson, java json, javax-json, mongo JD, mysql testng



what is dependency injection in java?
A. dependency injection is a technique whereby one object or static method supplies
  the dependencies of another object.


What is static binding and dynamic binding?
A. Static binding in Java occurs during compile time while dynamic binding
  occurs during runtime.









